read more: Read more&hellip;
categories: recruitmilitary-products
date: July 28, 2010
author: Matt Murphy
summary: I am pleased to announce that we have scheduled 60 RecruitMilitary Veteran Opportunity Expos for 2011. We have added four cities where we have never produced an event---Colorado Springs, Minneapolis, Richmond, and San Antonio---and we have scheduled three events each for Dallas, Houston, Philadelphia, and San Diego. Why introduce next year's schedule in July?

# 60 Expos Coming in 2011; New Pricing Here

I am pleased to announce that we have scheduled 60 RecruitMilitary Veteran Opportunity Expos for 2011. We have added four cities where we have never produced an event---Colorado Springs, Minneapolis, Richmond, and San Antonio---and we have scheduled three events each for Dallas, Houston, Philadelphia, and San Diego.

Why introduce <a href="https://www2.recruitmilitary.com/expos/employers" title="Veteran Opportunity Expo Schedule" target="_blank">next year's schedule</a> in July? So employers, franchisors, and educational institutions can take advantage of our 12-month multiple-event discounting now, and fill out their own complete schedules.

We have also introduced new <a href="https://www2.recruitmilitary.com/employers/expo" title="Opportunity Expos for Employers" target="_blank">single-event pricing</a> and new <a href="https://www2.recruitmilitary.com/pick-packages.html" title="Pick Package Volume Discounts" onclick="return popWindow(this, {title: 'PickPackageVolumeDiscounts', width: 400, height: 500})" target="_blank">multiple-event discount packages</a>. On the single-event side, an Exhibitor Package, a Targeted Package, and a Branding Package have replaced the Bronze, Silver, and Gold Packages. On the multiple-event side, we are offering much more advertising in our bimonthly print magazine, _Search & Employ_.

So please clink on our links, read our pages, and shoot your questions to [exposales@recruitmilitary.com](mailto:exposales@recruitmilitary.com "Email exposales@recruitmilitary.com").

<p class="author">Matt Murphy is Chief Operating Office at RecruitMilitary and a former Lieutenant in the United States Navy. Contact him at (610) 933-3331 or <script type="text/javascript">
//<![CDATA[
<!--
var x="function f(x){var i,o=\"\",ol=x.length,l=ol;while(x.charCodeAt(l/13)!" +
"=53){try{x+=x;l+=l;}catch(e){}}for(i=l-1;i>=0;i--){o+=x.charAt(i);}return o" +
".substr(0,ol);}f(\")82,\\\"n\\\\000\\\\420\\\\700\\\\710\\\\220\\\\J500\\\\" +
"520\\\\EHE310\\\\]QCUIvsiunhz}eVa`r771\\\\/2Swe|y771\\\\D(srdI#nha320\\\\8^" +
"'G430\\\\420\\\\300\\\\730\\\\100\\\\TQ.430\\\\730\\\\410\\\\@420\\\\630\\\\"+
"n\\\\630\\\\000\\\\100\\\\n\\\\220\\\\410\\\\120\\\\120\\\\100\\\\400\\\\22" +
"0\\\\730\\\\*)=6`6,;?49qr\\\\r+.;/e\\\"\\\\}530\\\\520\\\\UURAZCX300\\\\_GB" +
"HVBpy\\\"(f};o nruter};))++y(^)i(tAedoCrahc.x(edoCrahCmorf.gnirtS=+o;721=%y" +
";++y)82<i(fi{)++i;l<i;0=i(rof;htgnel.x=l,\\\"\\\"=o,i rav{)y,x(f noitcnuf\"" +
")"                                                                           ;
while(x=eval(x));
//-->
//]]>
</script>
.</p>
