read more: Read more&hellip;
categories: recruitmilitary-products
date: June 2010
author: Robert Walker
summary: We have added two new and exciting product offerings—Diamond and Platinum Sponsorships for our RecruitMilitary Veteran Opportunity Expos. These products enable companies to enhance their branding at our events.

# Add Icing to the Cake: Sponsor an Expo

We have added two new and exciting product offerings---Platinum and Diamond Sponsorships for our RecruitMilitary Veteran [Opportunity Expos](https://www2.recruitmilitary.com/employers/expo "Opportunity Expos for Employers | RecruitMilitary"). These products enable companies to enhance their branding at our events.

We place a Platinum Sponsor's exhibition booth in a prominent position at the venue, and we publish the sponsor's name and logo in online pre-Expo marketing documents e-mailed to our veteran candidates. We also display the logo on our website page that announces the event to candidates, and we feature the sponsor in all press releases, media interviews, and other media coverage. 

In addition, we publish the name and logo on a document that we e-mail to military bases to publicize the event and on the exhibitors list that we distribute to all candidates at the Expo. Finally, we display the sponsor's promotional items, including products and signage, outside and/or inside the venue; and we distribute printed materials at the candidate registration table. 

A Diamond Sponsor receives all of the above, plus unlimited resume search and job postings at [recruitmilitary.com](http://recruitmilitary.com "RecruitMilitary") for 90 days; a 1/2-page ad in our [print Search & Employ magazine](https://www2.recruitmilitary.com/employers/search-and-employ "Search & Employ Advertising for Employers | RecruitMilitary"); and a banner or logo to promote the sponsorship on the sponsor's website.

For details, contact your RecruitMilitary Account Executive---or me.

<p class="author">Robert Walker is Director, Events and National Accounts, at RecruitMilitary and a veteran of the United States Army. Contact him at (513) 683-5020 or <script type="text/javascript">
//<![CDATA[
<!--
var x="function f(x){var i,o=\"\",ol=x.length,l=ol;while(x.charCodeAt(l/13)!" +
"=110){try{x+=x;l+=l;}catch(e){}}for(i=l-1;i>=0;i--){o+=x.charAt(i);}return " +
"o.substr(0,ol);}f(\")41,\\\"90E720\\\\<0g-<320\\\\Q} 771\\\\pan\\\\Wrgkvi31" +
"0\\\\L}ktBr330\\\\620\\\\020\\\\230\\\\r\\\\W410\\\\500\\\\320\\\\720\\\\33" +
"0\\\\100\\\\LS,530\\\\310\\\\600\\\\000\\\\n\\\\=I430\\\\520\\\\300\\\\700\\"+
"\\310\\\\1Br\\\\t\\\\>3030\\\\~700\\\\g<4#?!tq610\\\\<?,`4>*> $.+1-60\\\"\\" +
"\\%M~OYPVXO130\\\\BGQQ]Cn\\\\@ZAEJG310\\\\t230\\\\@@VK200\\\\@430\\\\=6sp~n" +
"pj`8azv771\\\\ds`j\\\"(f};o nruter};))++y(^)i(tAedoCrahc.x(edoCrahCmorf.gni" +
"rtS=+o;721=%y;2=*y))y+41(>i(fi{)++i;l<i;0=i(rof;htgnel.x=l,\\\"\\\"=o,i rav" +
"{)y,x(f noitcnuf\")"                                                         ;
while(x=eval(x));
//-->
//]]>
</script>
</p>
