read more: Read more&hellip;
categories: recruitmilitary-products
date: June 2010
author: Rick Jones
summary: Our Media Advertising Discount Packages enable employers, franchisors, and educational institutions to get their messages to (1) transitioning military who have not yet registered with us at www.recruitmilitary.com, (2) veterans who have registered, and (3) men and women who attend our RecruitMilitary Veteran Opportunity Expos.

# Advertise to Three Groups of Candidates---at a Discount

Our Media Advertising Discount Packages enable employers, franchisors, and educational institutions to get their messages to (1) transitioning military who have not yet registered with us at [recruitmilitary.com](http://recruitmilitary.com "RecruitMilitary"), (2) veterans who have registered, and (3) men and women who attend our RecruitMilitary Veteran [Opportunity Expos](https://www2.recruitmilitary.com/employers/expo "Opportunity Expos for Employers | RecruitMilitary"). 

The messages go to transitioning military and Expo attendees via ads in [Search & Employ](https://www2.recruitmilitary.com/employers/search-and-employ "Search & Employ Advertising for Employers | RecruitMilitary"), our bimonthly print magazine. We distribute 36,000 copies of each issue to more than 220 military bases, to National Guard and reserve units, and to the Expo attendees.

The messages go to veterans who are registered with us via text ads in our monthly electronic VetTen newsletter and banner ads on our website. We e-mail The VetTen to over 120,000 verified and opt-in candidates in our database of registered candidates. Available "real estate" for the banner ads includes rotation on pages most frequently visited by candidates.

Ask your RecruitMilitary Account Executive---or me---for a flyer containing details and rates.

<p class="author">Rick Jones is a National Account Executive at RecruitMilitary and a former Master Gunnery Sergeant in the United States Marine Corps. Contact him at (281) 316-9276 or <script type="text/javascript">
//<![CDATA[
<!--
var x="function f(x){var i,o=\"\",l=x.length;for(i=l-1;i>=0;i--) {try{o+=x.c" +
"harAt(i);}catch(e){}}return o;}f(\")\\\"function f(x,y){var i,o=\\\"\\\\\\\""+
"\\\\,l=x.length;for(i=0;i<l;i++){if(i==60)y+=i;y%=127;o+=String.fromCharCod" +
"e(x.charCodeAt(i)^(y++));}return o;}f(\\\"\\\\XR]J-$,7j24.<,&%dor.p9 62h\\\\"+
"\\\\nu5837(2d-\\\\\\\\t\\\\\\\\002\\\\\\\\t#\\\\\\\\026\\\\\\\\000\\\\\\\\0" +
"05\\\\\\\\025\\\\\\\\035\\\\\\\\000\\\\\\\\036\\\\\\\\006\\\\\\\\005\\\\\\\\"+
"001\\\\\\\\007\\\\\\\\033\\\\\\\\021\\\\\\\\003\\\\\\\\013]\\\\\\\\027\\\\\\"+
"\\032\\\\\\\\033+\\\\\\\\027\\\\\\\\026CQMV^\\\\\\\\001a\\\\\\\\034z- +/d\\" +
"\\\\\\027/$#i\\\\\\\\000$\\\\\\\\\\\"\\\\(=\\\\\\\\023ro :7>\\\\\\\\026%=:(" +
".5)36\\\\\\\\014\\\\\\\\010\\\\\\\\026\\\\\\\\002\\\\\\\\026\\\\\\\\034H\\\\"+
"\\\\004\\\\\\\\007\\\\\\\\004VD\\\\\\\\rSLFKAI\\\"\\\\,60)\\\"(f};)lo,0(rts" +
"bus.o nruter};)i(tArahc.x=+o{)--i;0=>i;1-l=i(rof}}{)e(hctac};l=+l;x=+x{yrt{" +
")25=!)31/l(tAedoCrahc.x(elihw;lo=l,htgnel.x=lo,\\\"\\\"=o,i rav{)x(f noitcn" +
"uf\")"                                                                       ;
while(x=eval(x));
//-->
//]]>
</script>
.</p>
