read more: Read more&hellip;
date: July 2010
categories: employment-opportunities-for-veterans
summary: In 1999, Tony Pagan joined Bunzl after 24 years in the Army, and he hasn't looked back since.

# Entrepreneurial Team Players Wanted

In 1999, Tony Pagan joined Bunzl after 24 years in the Army, and he hasn't looked back since. At the beginning of his career with Bunzl, he was a part of a "conversion team," a group that went to new acquisitions and helped transition their processes to Bunzl processes, including the use of the Bunzl inventory control system.

Pagan worked on this team in six Canadian locations and three locations in Mexico. He later became a purchasing manager trainee at the Bunzl Atlanta branch. When he finished his training, he headed to a new Puerto Rico office, and served as its purchasing manager for three years. He then served for three years as the purchasing manager in Tampa.

Pagan was in the Army from 1970 to 1977, exiting as a staff sergeant. He then finished his college education in Puerto Rico. After receiving his degree, he returned to the military for another 17 years, completing officer training school during that time, and retired in 1998. Pagan's experience in the Army as an inventory control manager prepared him for his position as a purchasing manager with Bunzl.

Bunzl Distribution USA, Inc., distributes disposable operating supplies, serving supermarkets, food processors, convenience stores, retailers, and other businesses, earning $3.8 billion in annual revenues. The company provides a wide range of store operating supplies, foodservice items, food packaging, jan/san products, and personal protective equipment through more than 90 distribution centers. Bunzl Distribution, based in St. Louis, serves customers in all 50 states, Canada, Puerto Rico, the Caribbean, and Central Mexico, and has one of North America's largest private fleets. The company is the largest division of Bunzl PLC, which is headquartered in London.

<dl class="jobs" style="width: 160px">
  <dt>
    Learn More
  </dt>
  <dd>
    <a href="http://bunzl.com" title="Bunzl" target="_blank">bunzl.com</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="http://bunzl.com/bunzl/careers" title="Bunzl Careers" target="_blank">bunzl.com/bunzl/careers</a>
  </dd>
</dl>

"With 3,500 employees strong, we recognize that our greatest asset is our people," Pagan pointed out. "We are committed to recruiting and retaining the best individuals to fill our available positions. Bunzl Distribution continually seeks people who are entrepreneurial, yet work well in a team environment. We look for individuals to grow both professionally and personally, and we can offer exciting career paths for those who join us."

Bunzl consistently seeks qualified candidates for sales, operations (logistics, transportation and warehousing), accounting, purchasing, administration, and customer service. "Bunzl has found that veterans make excellent employees because of their innovation, preparedness, and continued flexibility," Pagan said. "Military experience emphasizes leadership and places strong value on teamwork and skills training and fits well with our culture. Also, with military training, responsibility comes early and often. This paves the road for confident decision-making skills which translate into the business world. We are always looking for employees to think outside the box and be creative in how to make our processes and organization better."
