read more: Read more&hellip;
date: October 2010
categories: employment-opportunities-for-veterans
summary: Everybody gets sick. It's a truism that every veteran and current service member should take to heart when looking for a post-military career. Why? Well, it means that people will always need healthcare professionals and that---even in a recession---it's hard to cut jobs or even hours in the healthcare field.

# Find a Healthy Career in Healthcare

Everybody gets sick. It's a truism that every veteran and current service member should take to heart when looking for a post-military career. Why? Well, it means that people will always need healthcare professionals and that---even in a recession---it's hard to cut jobs or even hours in the healthcare field.

It gets better. Ten of the 20 fastest-growing occupations are healthcare related, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' "Occupational Outlook Handbook" 2010-11 edition. Also, healthcare will generate 3.2 million new wage and salary jobs beginning in 2008 and ending in 2018, more than any other industry, largely in response to the rapid growth in the elderly population.

Most healthcare workers have jobs that require less than four years of college education; remember, not all healthcare workers are doctors and nurses. But many healthcare jobs that are regulated by state licensure require healthcare continuing education at regular intervals.

The BLS expects employment of registered nurses to grow by almost 582,000 jobs, while the number of home and personal health aides is projected to grow by 836,700 between 2008 and 2018. The outlook for offices of physicians, home health care, services for the elderly and persons with disabilities, and nursing care facilities is an increase of 2.0 million employees.

About 595,800 establishments make up the healthcare industry. They vary greatly in size, staffing pattern, and organizational structure. About 76 percent of healthcare establishments are offices of physicians, dentists, or other health practitioners. Although hospitals constitute only one percent of all healthcare establishments, they employ 35 percent of all workers.

## A Variety of Careers

Professional occupations, such as physicians and surgeons, dentists, registered nurses (RN's), social workers, and physical therapists, usually require at least a bachelor's degree in a specialized field or higher education in a specific health field—though RN's also may enter through associate degree or diploma programs.

Health technologists and technicians can work with medical records or as health information technicians, diagnostic medical sonographers, radiologic technologists, and dental hygienists. They may operate medical equipment and assist health diagnosing and treating practitioners. These technologists and technicians are typically graduates of one- to two-year postsecondary training programs.

Service occupations attract many workers with little or no specialized education or training. These include nursing aides, home health aides, janitors, dental assistants, medical assistants, and personal and home care aides. In fact, 47 percent of workers in nursing and residential care facilities have a high school diploma or less, as do 20 percent of workers in hospitals.

## Growth Areas

The BLS expects rapid growth in occupations concentrated outside the inpatient hospital sector, such as pharmacy technicians and personal and home care aides. Demand for dental care will rise due to greater retention of natural teeth by middle-aged and older persons, greater awareness of the importance of dental care, and an increased ability to pay for services. Dentists will use support personnel such as dental hygienists and assistants to help meet their increased workloads.

There will also be many openings for RN's. The median age of RN's is increasing, and not enough younger workers are replacing them. As a result, employers in some parts of the country are reporting difficulties in attracting and retaining nurses.

In many cases, it may be easier for jobseekers with health-specific training to obtain jobs and advance in their careers. Specialized clinical training is a requirement for many jobs in healthcare and is an asset even for many administrative jobs that do not specifically require it.

## Payday

Average earnings of nonsupervisory workers in most healthcare segments are higher than the average for all private industry, with hospital workers earning considerably more than the average, and those employed in nursing and residential care facilities and home healthcare services earning less. Average earnings often are higher in hospitals because the percentage of jobs requiring higher levels of education and training is greater than in other segments.

Some establishments offer tuition reimbursement, paid training, child day care services, and flexible work hours. Healthcare establishments that must be staffed around the clock to care for patients and handle emergencies often pay premiums for overtime and weekend work, holidays, late shifts, and time spent on call.

# A Talent Exchange
## [Military to Medicine](http://militarytomedicine.org)

Interested in pursuing a career in healthcare when you leave the military, but don't have any medical training? Or maybe you did get some healthcare training while serving this country and aren't sure where to begin your job search?

In either case, Military to Medicine has got you covered. This national, non-profit service organization combines healthcare training and career opportunities. The organization provides online training that leads to entry-level, technical healthcare positions—at little or no cost. This training is available to military spouses, wounded warriors and their caregivers, veterans, National Guard, reservists, and service members transitioning to civilian employment.

The training program also includes personal assessments, enabling Military to Medicine to evaluate skill sets and personalities to make sure the career of choice fits. The folks at Military to Medicine do this because they don't simply want people to find jobs for just right now; they want them to find long-term careers.

The organization will also help people navigate the sometimes challenging credential and certification requirements necessary in some states. And for men and women who already have healthcare experience, Military to Medicine provides access to a national job board full of current, open positions.

In 2009 Military to Medicine had nearly 1,000 go through its training program, and they successfully placed 300 in healthcare careers. "We realized a few years back that there were organizations such as Troops to Teachers and Helmets to Hardhats that would help service members find jobs after they left the military," said Daniel Nichols, Executive Director of Military to Medicine. "So we wanted to create a program that could do the same things for service members who wanted to enter the healthcare field when they left the military. We also understood that the number one choice of careers for military spouses is healthcare and we wanted to assist them as well. We call it a 'talent exchange.' " Nichols is a current Navy chaplain in the reserves, and served with Marines in Afghanistan in 2006.

"The healthcare industry loves to hire men and women who have a connection to the military," Nichols said. "They have long realized that this group is disciplined, is good at working in teams, often has technical skills, is good at critical thinking, is generally used to dealing with life and death situations, takes safety seriously, can work long hours, is good at following rules, and enjoys a service aspect to their jobs."


# Best of Both Worlds
## [U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps](http://usphs.gov)

Rear Admiral David Rutstein would like service members to stay in uniform when they leave the military---a different uniform. He'd love for them to join the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, a federal uniformed service with a lot in common with the U.S. military.

Rutstein is the Acting Deputy Surgeon General, assisting the Surgeon General in articulating the best available scientific information to the public regarding ways to improve personal health and the health of the nation. He also assists the Surgeon General in overseeing the operations of the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps.

The Corps needs physicians, nurses and pharmacists, but also engineers, scientists and even veterinarians to help fight against disease and poor health conditions in the United States. Rutstein said they are on the front lines of that battle.

"Unlike our sister uniformed services, our medical officers are line officers and not staff officers," he said. "They wouldn't be sitting back supporting other units. Their missions take them to where the action is."

The U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps is a team of more than 6,600 full-time, highly qualified public health professionals dedicated to delivering the nation's public health promotion and disease prevention programs, and advancing public health science.

As one of America's seven uniformed services, the Commissioned Corps fills essential public health leadership and service roles within the federal government agencies and programs. There are officers in many professions, including physicians, dentists, nurses, pharmacists, dieticians, engineers, environmental health officers, mental health specialists, health services officers, scientists, therapists and veterinarians.

"Service members are able to roll over their years of service," Rutstein said. "But unlike the military most of our people do not have a long-term obligation when they join us. That's a major reason why we want people who join us to be happy and passionate about what they do. We realize that as medical professionals that they could work in the civilian sector quite easily. We need them to consider this work to be their mission."

Rutstein estimates that 55 percent of the billets there are clinicians, leaving the remaining 45 percent to be filled by researchers, scientists, and other occupations that don't deal directly with patients.

"Being a uniformed service, but not part of the military allows us to have the best of both worlds," Rutstein said. "We understand how the military works and its benefits, but we have a foot in the civilian world as well. We're a bridge between two worlds that allows us to see and experience things with different perspective."

To qualify for the Commissioned Corps, applicants must be a U.S. citizen, be less than 44 years of age, be medically qualified, have a current, unrestricted license (if applicable) and have a qualifying degree or higher degree from an accredited institution (this varies depending on occupation).

Rutstein said it's easier to become a member of the Commissioned Corps than to get a civilian federal job because the application process is shorter and more direct. There are also career assistant managers available to help former service members who apply because the process is similar to applying for a civilian job than what they have experienced in the military.

He said that there are many openings currently, particularly in the mental health field. They are currently trying to fill a contract with the Army to provide more mental health professionals to help soldiers who are returning from deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan.

"(Members of the Commissioned Corps) have the option to serve their country in so many places," Rutstein said. "Whether it's helping the Coast Guard or the Federal Bureau of Prisons, there are a lot places that our people can go to keep our nation healthy."

# Outplacement on Steroids
## [American Hospital Services Group](http://americanhospital.us)

The military has a healthcare challenge. It's able to recruit people who join the service so they can become healthcare professionals on the government's dime, but once the service members' commitment is up they tend to head to the civilian sector, where healthcare jobs pay more and don't require a move every few years.

So how does the military replace those doctors? It many cases it doesn't. It takes a long time to train and educate an emergency room doctor, for example, and there isn't always someone waiting in the wings to take over. That's where American Hospital Service Group, LLC swoops in to make sure the military has the best care in its hospitals.

Founded in 1992, American Hospital Services Group, LLC provides healthcare professionals to the United States military health system, as well as local and regional hospital systems across the United States and overseas. It has long-term contracts with the Army, Air Force, and Navy to provide a mix of healthcare professionals, including physical therapists, psychologists, nurses, physician assistants, medical doctors and others.

"In many cases, we seek individuals who are leaving the military, but would really like to stay in their same position in the same location, but just perform their duties as a civilian," said Jeff Rohrbaugh, president of American Hospital Services Group, LLC. "That way the military is happy, the healthcare professional is happy, and the people who need the healthcare are happy because they get to keep their relationship with the healthcare professional they have come to know."

Rohrbaugh has over 20 years experience as a healthcare executive. He currently serves as AHSG's President, overseeing the company's strategic direction and day-to-day management.

"While putting the right person in the right place is our main objective, we don't stop providing service to our professionals and the facilities we contract with," Rohrbaugh said. "Recently, there was an off-duty OBGYN physician who worked at Langley Air Force Base who came to the rescue of a woman and her baby. The woman presented in the ER during a time when there was no OBGYN on duty. This physician arrived within six minutes, and delivered the child four minutes later. Mom and baby survived, but possibly neither would have if this physician had not gotten there so quickly.

"After it all happened, we presented the physician with a plaque," Rohrbaugh continued. "Contractors don't always get the recognition they deserve for going above and beyond, so we think it's important to show that they are appreciated."

The recruiters at American Hospital Services Group, LLC get personal when trying to find the best places for healthcare professionals. They don't just try to match up job hunters and jobs.

"If someone is looking for a job in a particular location, our recruiters develop a profile for them that takes into account their skills and objectives as well as family, housing needs and even schooling needs if that person has children. We call it 'outplacement on steroids.' That's why we like to start 12 months in advance of someone needing a position so we can find them a place that makes both them and the healthcare facility happy. We've never placed a healthcare professional that didn't work out."

It's clear that American Hospital Services Group, LLC goes the extra mile to make sure both the military medical needs are met and the healthcare professional's job desires are satisfied.

"We can help anybody who comes to us," Rohrbaugh said.

# Veterans Serving Veterans
## [St. Louis VA Medical Center](http://www.stlouis.va.gov)

When many service members leave the military they still have a desire to serve their country and their former service members, but not many non-military occupations allow people to do that directly.

But Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers allow former service members to work directly with their fellow soldiers. The concern is not about profit margins or meeting a product development deadline; rather, it's about providing the best care possible for the men and women who also signed up to defend their country.

The Department of Veterans Affairs operates more than 1,400 sites of care, including 153 medical centers, 909 ambulatory and community-based outpatient clinics, 135 nursing homes, 232 veterans' centers, 47 readjustment counseling centers, and 108 comprehensive home-care programs across all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories.

More than 7.9 million veterans, their family members, and survivors are enrolled in the VA health system, with 5.5 million seeking treatment each year. Currently, that annual treatment involves 773,600 inpatient visits and 60 million outpatient visits. About 250,000 full-time employees and 90,000 health professional trainees work in interdisciplinary care teams to deliver those patient services daily.

VA's patient population crosses a wide spectrum of individuals, from elderly World War II veterans, to baby boomer Vietnam vets, to today's younger heroes who served during the Gulf War era and present-day Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. VA also serves a growing number of women veterans, who currently account for seven percent of the total veteran population.

Christine Oakes is the woman to see for anyone who is interested in working at the St. Louis VA Medical Center.

"I serve the St. Louis VA Medical Center as a Human Resources Specialist---Recruiter," Oakes said. "(I provide) marketing to recruit hard-to-fill positions such as physicians, pharmacists and other clinical staff."

Oakes is a prime example of someone who served her country in the military and wanted to continue working with veterans when she transitioned to the civilian world.

"From 1989 to 1995 I served in the U. S. Navy as an Explosive Ordnance Disposal Technician (EOD)," Oakes said. "Basically, this is the bomb squad for the military. I was one of only seven females in the entire U. S. military to serve in this Special Forces position at the time. I separated in 1995 to be a mother to my daughters Victoria and Jo Ann. Being a mom and serving on the Bomb Squad don't really go together so well."

She noted that the St. Louis VA Medical Center covers a lot of territory---both geographically and medically.

"The St. Louis VA Medical Center is one of the largest VA facilities in the country serving not only the immediate area, but the surrounding states and beyond," Oakes said. "We provide inpatient and ambulatory care in medicine, surgery, psychiatry, neurology, and rehabilitation, as well as more than 65 subspecialty areas."

Oakes also said this is a great time to join the VA staff, and that the organization especially needs doctors, nurses, and other direct patient care specialists. "Because our services are expanding and our veteran population is increasing, our biggest need is in the clinical areas," Oakes said.

Men and women who know what military life is truly like are her first choices.

"Our organization finds veterans to be our best employees due to the fact that there is a logical connection for veterans at any VA facility," she said.

There are other qualities the VA covets other than just military experience, however.

"Loyalty is one of the best qualities, along with dependable, hard-working and task- oriented," Oakes said.

In the end, however, taking care of our nation's heroes is what's most important.

"We are all about serving veterans," Oakes said. 

# Don't Mess With Texas Healthcare
## [University of Texas Medical Branch](http://utmb.edu)

Opened in 1891, The University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) has been improving the health of Texas for more than a century. The organization has programs in health sciences education as well as patient care and research. The UTMB health center includes four schools, three institutes, six hospitals in Galveston, Texas, a network of campus- and community-based clinics, and one of only three Level I trauma centers in Southeast Texas.

UTMB has awarded more than 26,000 degrees throughout its history, and has provided medical school or residency training to one in six physicians licensed to practice in Texas. The university records more than 850,000 patient visits and 42,000 inpatient admissions each year. Among medical schools, it ranks 38th nationally and third in Texas in terms of National Institutes of Health funding for research. Eight departments ranked among the top 20 nationally in NIH funding.

UTMB is the seventh-largest employer among those headquartered in the Houston/Galveston region, and is one of only 13 hospitals in Texas to earn the coveted Magnet Recognition for nursing excellence from the American Nurses Credentialing Center.

"UTMB has numerous job opportunities," said Cindy Stanton, Director of Recruitment Services at the University of Texas Medical Branch. "These include positions in nursing, research, IT, administration, etc."

Stanton is responsible for the development of selection systems and processes and day-to-day operations for the recruitment of executive, administrative, professional, allied health, nursing, research, and all exempt and non-exempt personnel.

"UTMB hires many, many veterans and reservists with relevant experience," Stanton said. "We find these individuals possess many skills that make them successful in a health care environment."

The organization realizes that former service members bring a lot of talents to the table, especially some that might not show up on a resume. "The environment at UTMB is fast-paced and employees are required to use critical thinking and decision making skills," Stanton said. "The training veterans have received allows them to come prepared for this type of environment."
