read more: Read more&hellip;
date: July 2010
categories: employment-opportunities-for-veterans
summary: A transportation and logistics career will put you in the driver's seat.

# Get Your Career Moving

Today's modes of transportation will be around for a long time, employing personnel to fly the family to see Grandma during summer vacation, maintain the train that gets Dad back from a meeting in New York City, operate the ship that brings in goods from overseas, and drive the truck that delivers those goods from the pier to a store near you. There's a whole transportation and logistics industry out there dedicated to making sure people and goods get to their destinations safely and profitably. And that industry isn't just primed for growth---it's already growing. The industry needs employees for a wide variety of jobs, from truck drivers to people who can refurbish a train.

## Air Transportation

Commercial airlines fly millions of people across the country for business and pleasure, and air transportation also represents the fastest way to ship most types of cargo over long distances. Because there is a great demand for air service---even in an economic downturn---careers related to the air transportation industry tend to be mostly stable.

Even better, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) expects employment in the air transportation industry to increase 7.5 percent by 2018, with many career paths experiencing double-digit growth. According to the BLS, Management, Business, and Financial Occupations (11.4%), Business and Financial Operations Occupations (15.5%), Customer Service Representative (18.3%), Cargo Freight Agent (27.3%), Commercial Pilot (17%), and Air Traffic Controller are among the fastest growing occupations.

Opportunities for aircraft pilots and flight engineers will abound with fastgrowing regional and low-cost carriers. College graduates and former military pilots can expect to have the best job prospects. Opportunities will continue to exist for those pilots who choose to work for air-cargo carriers because of the increase in global freight demand.

Opportunities should also be favorable for aircraft and avionics equipment mechanics and service technicians, reflecting the likelihood of fewer entrants from the military and a large number of retirements. However, mechanics and technicians will face more competition for jobs with large airlines, because the high wages and travel benefits that come with these jobs generally attract more qualified applicants than there are openings.

## Truck Transportation and Warehousing

Try driving the highway without seeing a tractor-trailer hauling cargo from one side of the country to another. Firms in the truck transportation and warehousing industry provide a link between manufacturers and consumers; the industry includes general freight trucking, specialized freight trucking, and warehousing and storage.

The BLS expects overall employment in the truck transportation and warehousing industry to increase 11 percent by 2018. Among the fastest growing occupations are Management, Business and Financial Occupations (16%), Customer Service Representative (19%), Industrial Machinery Installation, Repair and Maintenance Worker (15.5%), Transportation and Material Moving Occupations (12.7%), Truck Driver, Heavy and TractorTrailer (18.4%) and Packer and Packaging Worker (13.9%).

The forecast for truck drivers is especially favorable. Many drivers leave the field because of the lengthy periods away from home and the long hours of driving that the job requires. This means that there are always openings.

The improving economy is also playing a role. An April 21, 2010, story from Reuters, "Improving Economy Squeezes Truck Driver Supply," predicted a driver shortage of about 180,000 in 2010, and a shortage of 500,000 in 2011. As the economy recovers, demand will increase, and new regulations will make it harder for some drivers to get the credentials they need to drive certain cargo. Demand for freight grows at about three to four percent a year, while the number of truck drivers grows at less than one percent.

The BLS also expects opportunities for diesel service technicians and mechanics to be favorable, especially for applicants with formal post-secondary schooling. Growth in truck transportation and warehousing should also prompt an increase in office and administrative support employment. The industry will need more dispatchers, stock clerks, and shipping, receiving, and traffic clerks to support expanded logistical services across the country. Prospects for individuals who have information technology skills should be excellent.

## Rail Transportation

The trains are running---a lot---on three types of railroads: freight, passenger, and urban transit (subway and light rail).

Freight railroads transport billions of tons of goods to destinations within the United States, and to ports to be shipped abroad. Passenger railroads deliver millions of passengers and long-distance commuters to destinations throughout the country. Subways and light-rail systems move passengers within metropolitan areas and surrounding suburbs.

All of these modes of rail transportation require employees to operate, oversee, and assist in their operations. Rail transportation workers not only work on trains, but also can be found working in rail yards where railcars are inspected, repaired, coupled, and uncoupled.

The BLS expects employment in most railroad transportation occupations to increase by nine percent from 2008 through 2018. Much of the increase will be due to increases in the demand for freight and passenger rail transportation, as fuel costs rise and rail becomes a cheap alternative to trucks and automobiles. The BLS expects demand for locomotive engineers and operators to grow by ten percent, and demand for subway and streetcar operators is supposed to grow by 19 percent by 2018. The industry will also see a lot of retirements over the next decade, further fueling the need for new workers.

## Water Transportation

People who are called to the rivers and the seas can find lucrative careers. The movement of huge amounts of cargo as well as passengers in and out of U.S. waters and sometimes over the oceans depends on workers known as merchant mariners. Those workers operate and maintain civilian-owned deep-sea merchant ships, tugboats, towboats, ferries, barges, offshore supply vessels, cruise ships, and other craft on the oceans, the Great Lakes, rivers, canals, and other waterways, as well as in harbors.

The BLS expects employment in water transportation to grow 15 percent over the 2008-2018 period, faster than the average for all occupations. The demand for employees, especially officers, is expected to be greater than the number of people wishing to enter these occupations. High turnover, the prospect of many retirements in the industry as a whole, and growth in worldwide trade will create more jobs than applicants. The number of graduates from maritimeacademies has not kept up with the demand for officers on board ships.

Demand for water transportation will grow because of increased tourism and increases in offshore oil and gas production. Employment will also rise in and around major port cities due to increasing international trade. The BLS expects opportunities for sailors and marine oilers to grow by 12%; ship and boat captains and operators by 16%; captains, mates, and pilots of water vessels by 17%; and ship engineers by 19%.
