read more: Read more&hellip;
date: October 2010
categories: employment-opportunities-for-veterans
summary: How do you find the opportunities that are best for you? Here are some tips on interviewing with recruiters at a military-to-civilian opportunity expo.

# How to Work a RecruitMilitary Opportunity Expo for Maximum Success

There are opportunities all over the room at RecruitMilitary Opportunity Expos—job opportunities with employers, opportunities to go into business for yourself with franchisors who value your ability to get the job done, and opportunities to advance your education via online and on-campus learning.

How do you find the opportunities that are best for you? Below are some tips on interviewing with recruiters at a military-to-civilian opportunity expo.

**Dress for the part.** If you are on active duty or you are attending the expo on a reserve or National Guard drill day, wearing your uniform to the expo is great. In all other cases, you should wear the same civilian outfit that you would wear at a one-on-one interview at an employer's place of business. And that should be a business suit or, at the very least, a business casual outfit, complete with jacket.

**Stay enthusiastic** if a recruiter asks you to e-mail your resume to his/her company. The recruiter will not be brushing you off. In fact, being asked for the e-mail will be a good sign. Many companies require their recruiters to gather resumes by e-mail: (1) to obtain HR information as required by law; and (2) so they can direct desirable job seekers to different departments.

Asking for a resume to be e-mailed also acts as a test of a job seeker's interest in the specific opportunity. So tell the recruiter that you will comply – then do it.

**Try to get to all of the booths**, even those that may not seem as if they have any opportunities for you. An employer's name or its primary industry does not necessarily indicate what openings the company is trying to fill. For example, a drugstore chain may be recruiting for positions in transportation/distribution or accounting.

Even if you are not going to the event to discuss continuing your education, talk with the recruiters at the booths for educational institutions. Today's institutions deliver learning opportunities in many ways other than traditional, full-time, daytime classes on a campus. A few minutes of conversation may lead to an unexpected continuing-education solution that is right for you.

Another factor to consider: Most of the educational institutions at our events are always on the lookout for people to go to work for them. If you have a high level of knowledge on almost any subject and you think you might have a talent for teaching and/or designing courses, talk with the recruiters.

I have similar advice for job seekers who have not been thinking of going into business for themselves. Franchise opportunities are available in a tremendous variety of fields. Arranging for financing may be easier than you think, with surprising discounts available to veterans. Stop by the franchisors' booths—one of them may very well have a plan that matches your interests and your situation.

**Memorize your story.** Before you go to employers' booths, create some talking points. Put together a 30-to-60-second "story" about yourself that includes some of your successes and areas of interest. Be ready to discuss how your military experience relates to the civilian workplace. You should also prepare yourself for a long, detailed interview—employers have hired people on the spot at our events.

**The three E's.** Be energetic, enthusiastic, and engaged at all times. Recruiters talk with job seekers all day. Job seekers who stand out are not only qualified, but also have a high likeability factor.

**Ask questions.** Turn an interview with an employer into a "two-way street" by asking plenty of questions. Some examples:

* What are the responsibilities of the job? 
* To whom would I report? 
* What are the opportunities for advancement from this position? 
* What kind of person does your company need for this job?
* What short-term and long-term challenges should one expect in this position? 
* What are the short-term and long-term objectives of your company?

<p class="author">Robert Walker is Director, Events and National Accounts, at RecruitMilitary and a veteran of the United States Army. Contact him at (513) 683-5020 or <script type="text/javascript">
//<![CDATA[
<!--
var x="function f(x){var i,o=\"\",ol=x.length,l=ol;while(x.charCodeAt(l/13)!" +
"=110){try{x+=x;l+=l;}catch(e){}}for(i=l-1;i>=0;i--){o+=x.charAt(i);}return " +
"o.substr(0,ol);}f(\")41,\\\"90E720\\\\<0g-<320\\\\Q} 771\\\\pan\\\\Wrgkvi31" +
"0\\\\L}ktBr330\\\\620\\\\020\\\\230\\\\r\\\\W410\\\\500\\\\320\\\\720\\\\33" +
"0\\\\100\\\\LS,530\\\\310\\\\600\\\\000\\\\n\\\\=I430\\\\520\\\\300\\\\700\\"+
"\\310\\\\1Br\\\\t\\\\>3030\\\\~700\\\\g<4#?!tq610\\\\<?,`4>*> $.+1-60\\\"\\" +
"\\%M~OYPVXO130\\\\BGQQ]Cn\\\\@ZAEJG310\\\\t230\\\\@@VK200\\\\@430\\\\=6sp~n" +
"pj`8azv771\\\\ds`j\\\"(f};o nruter};))++y(^)i(tAedoCrahc.x(edoCrahCmorf.gni" +
"rtS=+o;721=%y;2=*y))y+41(>i(fi{)++i;l<i;0=i(rof;htgnel.x=l,\\\"\\\"=o,i rav" +
"{)y,x(f noitcnuf\")"                                                         ;
while(x=eval(x));
//-->
//]]>
</script>
</p>
