read more: Read more&hellip;
categories: interviewing-veterans
date: April 2010
author: Susan Sterritt
summary: It may be tempting in an interview to embellish the desirability of your organization to sway the best and the brightest talent in your direction. However, beyond the obvious ethical and legal problems created by such a practice, the prudent interviewer recognizes that the best time to dispel any faulty expectations is before an individual is ever added to your payroll.

# How Should You Interview Veterans?

It may be tempting in an interview to embellish the desirability of your organization to sway the best and the brightest talent in your direction. However, beyond the obvious ethical and legal problems created by such a practice, the prudent interviewer recognizes that the best time to dispel any faulty expectations is before an individual is ever added to your payroll.

While applicants come to your organization with a myriad of expectations, veterans may carry with them more predictable ones based on common differences between military and civilian work environments. Proactively addressing those expectations with all applicants may be the wisest way to avoid disappointment, confusion, or even litigation.

With a little forethought, your organization can avoid mismatches in expectations that could easily arise regarding promotion, employment-at-will, pay for performance, dress code, and, with non-exempt employees, performing work while &ldquo;off the clock.&rdquo;

## Promotion.

Enlisted personnel&mdash;individuals in ranks through the highest sergeant level in the Army, rates through the highest petty officer level in the Navy, and the equivalents in the other branches&mdash;cannot stay in the military forever. They must be promoted by certain timeframes during their careers, or they must leave the service.

Veterans entering the civilian workforce for the first time may expect similar upward career progression where no such predictable advancement can be&mdash;or should be&mdash;guaranteed. Some organizations do have apprenticeship programs or succession plans that include timed upward movement. But, unless your organization has such a plan, it is best to tell candidates that, while your organization may promote from within when opportunities arise, it also considers outside candidates, and cannot guarantee promotional opportunities.

## Employment-at-Will.

On the flip side, there should be no expectation that without a promotion, a career with your company is less valued or must end. Without previous non-union, civilian work experience, the concept of employment-at-will may be foreign to the veteran.

Assuming your organization is within an &ldquo;at will&rdquo; state, it&rsquo;s a wise practice to explain to all applicants orally&mdash;and in writing&mdash;that employment with your organization is for no guaranteed period and can be ended by either party at any time with or without cause. When appropriate, explain that promotion is not necessary to remain employed, and that you hope employees will enjoy a long and mutually beneficial career with the company.

However, you should make it clear that an employee may leave at any time, preferably with notice, and that the company may sever the relationship at its sole discretion at any time as well. Your commentary during the interview should never imply a contractual relationship.

## Pay for Performance (Non-Union Environment).

The concept of pay for performance may be alien to the service member who is accustomed to being paid the established rate for his or her military rank/rate. It is exciting to be able to describe to a veteran the possibility of increased pay based on performance or productivity, if that possibility is part of the culture and practice in your organization. Be careful, however, not to create false hopes by suggesting that any percentage of increase will be tied to performance ratings.

## Dress Code.

Most veterans are accustomed to wearing a uniform. Describing the dress code requirements of your facility would help a new employee who is a recently discharged veteran build an appropriate work wardrobe.

## Non-Exempt Employees Working &ldquo;Off the Clock.&rdquo;

In general, veterans are expected to be &ldquo;on duty&rdquo; whenever they are needed without punching a time clock. Although it is desirable to capture the services of a willing and eager veteran, it is vital to make sure that no laws regarding pay practices are violated as a result.

For example, although the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) does not address breaks or meal periods, your state&rsquo;s fair employment practices may not be silent in this area. Voluntarily performing work during unpaid meal periods and before or after hours may create overtime pay obligations under the FLSA and your state laws.

## No discrimination.

A variety of important laws help protect veterans from discriminatory employment practices. In addition to acquainting your supervisory staff with these regulations, it is prudent to reiterate in the interview that your organization does not tolerate illegal discrimination in employment practices and welcomes veterans to its ranks.

Furthermore, if your organization has an Affirmative Action Plan for Veterans (50 or more employees and government contracts of $100,000), you may wish to explain that your organization takes affirmative steps to assist qualified veterans and advance them in employment.

<p class="author">Susan Sterritt is a Learning and Development Consultant with Employers Resource Association in Cincinnati. She has two decades of Human Resource management experience and nine years of service in the United States Army Reserves. Sterritt is a certified Senior Professional in Human Resources (SPHR&reg;).</p>
