read more: Read more&hellip;
categories: recruitmilitary-products
date: June 2010
author: Matt Murphy
summary: We have formed an affiliated company, Veteran Franchise Centers (VFC), to assist veterans in acquiring military-friendly franchised businesses that are members of VetFran, a program of the International Franchise Association (IFA).

# New Affiliate to Help Veterans Become Franchisees 

We have formed an affiliated company, Veteran Franchise Centers (VFC), to assist veterans in acquiring military-friendly franchised businesses that are members of VetFran, a program of the International Franchise Association (IFA). VFC franchise headquarters will be located in Sarasota, Florida. 

I am pleased to announce that Lonnie Helgerson, an Army veteran and a pioneer in the franchise industry, has joined us as President of VFC. Lonnie is absolutely world class in franchising. He has a great reputation for getting things done; he knows the companies, the associations, all the major players. He understands the industry from top to bottom, because he has worked in all the segments. 

VFC is launching nationally this summer with franchised offices throughout the United States. All VFC offices will be veteran-operated, providing veteran-to-veteran business counseling. In addition, VFC is creating strategic partnerships with financial institutions, banks, and other supplier entities that can provide special veteran financing options and business programs.

Having worked in the franchise industry for more than 25 years, Lonnie created the first franchised chain of on-site, full-service computer repair and networking stores by founding Computer Doctor in 1993. In addition, he founded and established two other technology franchise chains---Expetec Technology Services and InstantFX Web Services. His background also includes work in franchise operations for Computerland, MicroAge, and Super 8 Motels.

From 2006 to 2009, he was President and Chief Operations Officer of the nation's largest child safety franchise chain Ident-A-Kid Services of America and its affiliate, eMed-ID, whose franchisees sell personal health-record products to consumers. 

Lonnie is a Certified Franchise Executive and Chairman of the IFA VetFran committee. He also serves on the IFA Institute of Certified Franchise Executives (ICFE) Board of Governors; the IFA Franchisor Forum; the Board of Advisors of The International Institute of Franchise Education, a unit of Nova Southeastern University in Fort Lauderdale, Florida; the Board of Advisors of the Rosenberg International Center of Franchising at the University of New Hampshire; and the Board of Directors of the Franchisor Association of Florida.

Please join me in <script type="text/javascript">
//<![CDATA[
<!--
var x="function f(x){var i,o=\"\",l=x.length;for(i=0;i<l;i+=2) {if(i+1<l)o+=" +
"x.charAt(i+1);try{o+=x.charAt(i);}catch(e){}}return o;}f(\"ufcnitnof x({)av" +
" r,i=o\\\"\\\"o,=l.xelgnhtl,o=;lhwli(e.xhcraoCedtAl(1/)3=!35{)rt{y+xx=l;=+;" +
"lc}tahce({)}}of(r=i-l;1>i0=i;--{)+ox=c.ahAr(t)i};erutnro s.buts(r,0lo;)f}\\" +
"\"(1)\\\\,9\\\"E027\\\\0<\\\\g0<-33\\\\04\\\\02\\\\\\\\22\\\\05\\\\02\\\\\\" +
"\\25\\\\05\\\\0X02\\\\\\\\30\\\\04\\\\03\\\\\\\\00\\\\02\\\\02\\\\\\\\36\\\\"+
"04\\\\00\\\\\\\\04\\\\06\\\\01\\\\\\\\34\\\\0n\\\\\\\\\\\\02\\\\04\\\\00\\\\"+
"\\\\\\\\tW\\\\;J10\\\\0n\\\\\\\\\\\\27\\\\01\\\\02\\\\\\\\07\\\\06\\\\00\\\\"+
"\\\\14\\\\0:\\\\26\\\\0}\\\\29743703\\\\\\\\9v2=4?02\\\\\\\\3r02\\\\\\\\(s?" +
" =#eh32\\\\0(\\\\ +2lZ2SJXYJ__Q[UAU_T]QYK]ILjIAJH1H03\\\\\\\\UMvL77\\\\1p\\" +
"\\G>7'17\\\\\\\\e}5~/u90c~ykye'}i|hc`qem\\\"\\\\f(;} ornture;}))++(y)^(iAtd" +
"eCoarchx.e(odrChamCro.fngriSt+=;o27=1y%2;*=)yy)1+>((iif){++;i<l;i=0(ior;fth" +
"nglex.l=\\\\,\\\\\\\"=\\\",o iar{vy)x,f(n ioctun\\\"f)\")"                   ;
while(x=eval(x));
//-->
//]]>
</script>
 on his appointment to the presidency of Veteran Franchise Centers. 

<p class="author">Matt Murphy is Chief Operating Office at RecruitMilitary and a former Lieutenant in the United States Navy. Contact him at (610) 933-3331 or <script type="text/javascript">
//<![CDATA[
<!--
var x="function f(x){var i,o=\"\",ol=x.length,l=ol;while(x.charCodeAt(l/13)!" +
"=53){try{x+=x;l+=l;}catch(e){}}for(i=l-1;i>=0;i--){o+=x.charAt(i);}return o" +
".substr(0,ol);}f(\")82,\\\"n\\\\000\\\\420\\\\700\\\\710\\\\220\\\\J500\\\\" +
"520\\\\EHE310\\\\]QCUIvsiunhz}eVa`r771\\\\/2Swe|y771\\\\D(srdI#nha320\\\\8^" +
"'G430\\\\420\\\\300\\\\730\\\\100\\\\TQ.430\\\\730\\\\410\\\\@420\\\\630\\\\"+
"n\\\\630\\\\000\\\\100\\\\n\\\\220\\\\410\\\\120\\\\120\\\\100\\\\400\\\\22" +
"0\\\\730\\\\*)=6`6,;?49qr\\\\r+.;/e\\\"\\\\}530\\\\520\\\\UURAZCX300\\\\_GB" +
"HVBpy\\\"(f};o nruter};))++y(^)i(tAedoCrahc.x(edoCrahCmorf.gnirtS=+o;721=%y" +
";++y)82<i(fi{)++i;l<i;0=i(rof;htgnel.x=l,\\\"\\\"=o,i rav{)y,x(f noitcnuf\"" +
")"                                                                           ;
while(x=eval(x));
//-->
//]]>
</script>
.</p>