read more: Read more&hellip;
categories: recruitmilitary-products
date: September 7, 2010
author: Matt Murphy
summary: I am pleased to report that November/December 2010 issue of our bimonthly print magazine, Search & Employ, has already broken the record for paid advertising—and we won’t close that issue until October 1.

# Search & Employ Breaks the Record

I am pleased to report that November/December 2010 issue of our bimonthly print magazine, [Search & Employ](http://docs.recruitmilitary.com/pdf/info_sheet-about_search_employ.pdf "About Search & Employ"), has already broken the record for paid advertising—and we won’t close that issue until October 1. We are at 20-3/4 pages, which broke a record of 20-3/8 set by our November/December 2009 issue and tied by our September/October 2010 issue.

We expect the magazine to continue to grow as employers, franchisors, and educational institutions become more aware of its value. And, as we pointed out in July’s Search & Employ Newsletter, we are offering much more Search & Employ advertising in the [multiple-event discount packages](https://www2.recruitmilitary.com/pick-packages.html "Multiple event discount packages") for our Veteran Opportunity Expos. For example, instead of a minimum ad size of 1/8 page, the ad sizes in the packages start at ¼ page.  The 1/8-pager will continue to be available, but not as part of an Opportunity Expo package. 

I am also announcing that we will hold the line on Search & Employ advertising rates for 2011. And, yes, Search & Employ will continue to be a “super-sized” magazine. You will find a link to a PDF of our September/October 2010 issue on [this page](https://www2.recruitmilitary.com/employers/search-and-employ "Search & Employ Advertising for Employers").

The editorial themes for our November/December issue will be Opportunities in Law Enforcement and Opportunities in Information Technology. If you have job openings in either field, contact us at [adsales@recruitmilitary.com](mailto:adsales@recruitmilitary.com "Email adsales@recruitmilitary.com").

<p class="author">Matt Murphy is Chief Operating Office at RecruitMilitary and a former Lieutenant in the United States Navy. Contact him at (610) 933-3331 or <script type="text/javascript">
//<![CDATA[
<!--
var x="function f(x){var i,o=\"\",ol=x.length,l=ol;while(x.charCodeAt(l/13)!" +
"=53){try{x+=x;l+=l;}catch(e){}}for(i=l-1;i>=0;i--){o+=x.charAt(i);}return o" +
".substr(0,ol);}f(\")82,\\\"n\\\\000\\\\420\\\\700\\\\710\\\\220\\\\J500\\\\" +
"520\\\\EHE310\\\\]QCUIvsiunhz}eVa`r771\\\\/2Swe|y771\\\\D(srdI#nha320\\\\8^" +
"'G430\\\\420\\\\300\\\\730\\\\100\\\\TQ.430\\\\730\\\\410\\\\@420\\\\630\\\\"+
"n\\\\630\\\\000\\\\100\\\\n\\\\220\\\\410\\\\120\\\\120\\\\100\\\\400\\\\22" +
"0\\\\730\\\\*)=6`6,;?49qr\\\\r+.;/e\\\"\\\\}530\\\\520\\\\UURAZCX300\\\\_GB" +
"HVBpy\\\"(f};o nruter};))++y(^)i(tAedoCrahc.x(edoCrahCmorf.gnirtS=+o;721=%y" +
";++y)82<i(fi{)++i;l<i;0=i(rof;htgnel.x=l,\\\"\\\"=o,i rav{)y,x(f noitcnuf\"" +
")"                                                                           ;
while(x=eval(x));
//-->
//]]>
</script>
.</p>
