read more: Read more&hellip;
date: July 28, 2010
author: Mike Francomb
categories: recruitmilitary-products
summary: As we conduct strategic needs analyses for employers, franchisors, and educational institutions, one key factor that we consider is whether the prospect's recruitment staffing and practices lend themselves to the use of an external job board. To make that determination, we work with the prospect to answer a number of questions.

# Should You Board Our Job Board?

As we conduct strategic needs analyses for employers, franchisors, and educational institutions, one key factor that we consider is whether the prospect's recruitment staffing and practices lend themselves to the use of an external job board. To make that determination, we work with the prospect to answer a number of questions. Some examples:

* Does the prospect have frequent recruitment needs? If so, a license to search our candidate database (in other words, a database subscription) at <a href="http://recruitmilitary.com" title="RecruitMilitary" target="_blank">recruitmilitary.com</a> is in play. If not, a program of job postings may apply.
* Does the prospect have the staffing to evaluate large numbers of registration profiles and/or resumes? If so, a subscription and job postings make good sense. If not, then an automated posting process with unlimited postings may be a good choice.
* Does the prospect have recruitment needs in various parts of the country? If so, a multiple-user license may be in order.
* Is the prospect an employer in the manufacturing industry or law enforcement? Is the prospect hiring for sales positions? Does the prospect need to recruit individuals who have security clearances? Does the employer need leaders who have outstanding character traits such as initiative, self-discipline, and a strong work ethic? A "yes" to any of the above makes our board a great choice, because we have suitable candidates in droves.

A few more words about our board: 

<ul>
  <li>As I write this, we have 457,591 registered candidates with military backgrounds. The candidates include veterans who already have civilian work experience, men and women who are transitioning from active duty to civilian life, members of the National Guard and reserves, and military spouses.</li>
  <li>For the last six months, the database has been growing by 266 candidates per day.</li>
  <li>12.1% of the candidates were, or are, officers; 87.8% were, or are, enlisted personnel.</li>
  <li>39.9% were, or are, in the Army; 22.7% in the Navy; 18.4% in the Air Force; 15.8% in the Marines; and 1.2% in the Coast Guard---1.3% are military spouses.</li>
  <li>63% are Caucasian, 21.8% African-American, 9.2% Hispanic, 2.1% Asian-American, 1.2% Native American, and 2.8% other ethnicity. 84.8% are men, and 15.2% are women.</li>
  <li>46,185 have security clearances.</li>
</ul>

If you would like to discuss your own strategic recruitment planning---and this can be a general, wide-ranging discussion, not necessarily tied to any particular time frame---just contact me at 513-683-5020 or <a href="mailto:&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6B;&#x65;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x63;&#x72;&#x75;&#x69;&#x74;&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6C;&#x69;&#x74;&#x61;&#x72;&#x79;&#x2E;&#x63;&#x6F;&#x6D;" title="Email &#x6D;&#x69;&#x6B;&#x65;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x63;&#x72;&#x75;&#x69;&#x74;&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6C;&#x69;&#x74;&#x61;&#x72;&#x79;&#x2E;&#x63;&#x6F;&#x6D;">&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6B;&#x65;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x63;&#x72;&#x75;&#x69;&#x74;&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6C;&#x69;&#x74;&#x61;&#x72;&#x79;&#x2E;&#x63;&#x6F;&#x6D;</a>. For information on our job board, inquire at [onlinesales@recruitmilitary.com](mailto:onlinesales@recruitmilitary.com "Email onlinesales@recruitmilitary.com").

<p class="author">Mike Francomb is Senior Vice President, Strategic Accounts, at RecruitMilitary and a former Captain in the United States Army. Contact him at (513) 683-5020 or <a href="mailto:&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6B;&#x65;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x63;&#x72;&#x75;&#x69;&#x74;&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6C;&#x69;&#x74;&#x61;&#x72;&#x79;&#x2E;&#x63;&#x6F;&#x6D;" title="Email &#x6D;&#x69;&#x6B;&#x65;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x63;&#x72;&#x75;&#x69;&#x74;&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6C;&#x69;&#x74;&#x61;&#x72;&#x79;&#x2E;&#x63;&#x6F;&#x6D;">&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6B;&#x65;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x63;&#x72;&#x75;&#x69;&#x74;&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6C;&#x69;&#x74;&#x61;&#x72;&#x79;&#x2E;&#x63;&#x6F;&#x6D;</a>.</p>
