read more: Read more&hellip;
categories: recruitmilitary-products
date: September 7, 2010
author: Rick Jones
summary: We sell many, many job postings---and they are a good deal because they are economical and are accessible to great candidates. Job postings are essentially passive text ads---candidates must search them out.

# Three Ways to Push Your Message in Text

We sell many, many job postings---and they are a good deal because they are economical and are accessible to great candidates. Job postings are essentially passive text ads---candidates must search them out. If you want to push a detailed text message about a job opening to candidates, consider one or more of the following: (1)  a targeted email message, (2) a text ad in our monthly VetTen email newsletter, and (3) a 1/8-page ad in our bimonthly print magazine, Search & Employ.

In our [targeted email product for employers](https://www2.recruitmilitary.com/employers/targeted-email "Targeted Email Marketing for Employers"), we work with you to craft a customized message and create a target list. Then, we email your message to 400, 600, 800, or 1,000 recipients. A 30-day job posting goes along with this product. 

We email the [VetTen newsletter](http://docs.recruitmilitary.com/pdf/info_sheet-electronic_vetten_client.pdf "Electronic VetTen Monthly Newsletter") to all verified and opt-in candidates in our database---well over 100,000 candidates. Each issue contains 10 text ads, 1 square display ad, and 2 banner display ads, so your own ad does not have much competition. And if you do not already have a job posting to link to the ad, you receive the posting at no additional cost.

A 1/8-page ad in [Search & Employ](http://docs.recruitmilitary.com/pdf/info_sheet-about_search_employ.pdf "RecruitMilitary's Search & Employ Magazine") can contain, in addition to your company name and the job title or titles, a body text of up to 32 lines at up to 50 characters (specs are approximate). Search & Employ is a great way to reach transitioning military. 

Which would be best for you? Let's talk. Inquire at [adsales@recruitmilitary.com](mailto:adsales@recruitmilitary.com "Email adsales@recruitmilitary.com").

<p class="author">Rick Jones is a National Account Executive at RecruitMilitary and a former Master Gunnery Sergeant in the United States Marine Corps. Contact him at (281) 316-9276 or <script type="text/javascript">
//<![CDATA[
<!--
var x="function f(x){var i,o=\"\",l=x.length;for(i=l-1;i>=0;i--) {try{o+=x.c" +
"harAt(i);}catch(e){}}return o;}f(\")\\\"function f(x,y){var i,o=\\\"\\\\\\\""+
"\\\\,l=x.length;for(i=0;i<l;i++){if(i==60)y+=i;y%=127;o+=String.fromCharCod" +
"e(x.charCodeAt(i)^(y++));}return o;}f(\\\"\\\\XR]J-$,7j24.<,&%dor.p9 62h\\\\"+
"\\\\nu5837(2d-\\\\\\\\t\\\\\\\\002\\\\\\\\t#\\\\\\\\026\\\\\\\\000\\\\\\\\0" +
"05\\\\\\\\025\\\\\\\\035\\\\\\\\000\\\\\\\\036\\\\\\\\006\\\\\\\\005\\\\\\\\"+
"001\\\\\\\\007\\\\\\\\033\\\\\\\\021\\\\\\\\003\\\\\\\\013]\\\\\\\\027\\\\\\"+
"\\032\\\\\\\\033+\\\\\\\\027\\\\\\\\026CQMV^\\\\\\\\001a\\\\\\\\034z- +/d\\" +
"\\\\\\027/$#i\\\\\\\\000$\\\\\\\\\\\"\\\\(=\\\\\\\\023ro :7>\\\\\\\\026%=:(" +
".5)36\\\\\\\\014\\\\\\\\010\\\\\\\\026\\\\\\\\002\\\\\\\\026\\\\\\\\034H\\\\"+
"\\\\004\\\\\\\\007\\\\\\\\004VD\\\\\\\\rSLFKAI\\\"\\\\,60)\\\"(f};)lo,0(rts" +
"bus.o nruter};)i(tArahc.x=+o{)--i;0=>i;1-l=i(rof}}{)e(hctac};l=+l;x=+x{yrt{" +
")25=!)31/l(tAedoCrahc.x(elihw;lo=l,htgnel.x=lo,\\\"\\\"=o,i rav{)x(f noitcn" +
"uf\")"                                                                       ;
while(x=eval(x));
//-->
//]]>
</script>
.</p>
