read more: Read more&hellip;
date: May 2010
author: Mike Francomb
categories: veteran-job-interests
summary: We know the answer because we ask veterans to select their future work interests when they register as job candidates in our database at [RecruitMilitary.com](http://recruitmilitary.com "RecruitMilitary.com"). We ask them select their interests from a list of 67 industries and occupations.

# What Jobs Interest Veterans? Part Two: Senior Enlisted Personnel

In our April 2010 newsletter, I said that we know what jobs interest veterans because we ask them to select their future interests when they register as job candidates in our database at RecruitMilitary.com. We ask them to select their interests from a list of 67 industries and occupations. Each candidate may select up to 10 interests.

In the April article, we listed the top 20 selections made by captains in the Army and their equivalents in the Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard. This month's table lists the top 20 picked by  enlisted personnel in pay grades E-6, E-7, and E-8. 

E-6's are Staff Sergeants in the Army and Marine Corps, Petty Officers first class in the Navy and Coast Guard, and Technical Sergeants in the Air Force.  Typically, these individuals have served between 10-15 years, and they will be in leadership roles with teams of 7-15.  They may also be key members on operational staffs with specialized individual skills.  Over the years, we have seen these service members have great impact in individual contributor technical roles and team leader or first line leadership roles.

E-7's are Sergeants First Class in the Army, Chief Petty Officers in the Navy and Coast Guard, Master Sergeants in the Air Force, and Gunnery Sergeants in the Marine Corps.  These individuals are the quintessential small unit leaders with teams of 15-40 individuals, and they will have served between 12-20 years in the service.  These leaders have proven effective in production supervisor, site manager and maintenance leadership roles across a variety of industries.  Additionally, they are strong individual contributors in key positions like sales roles.

E-8's are First Sergeants and Master Sergeants in the Army and Marine Corps, Senior Chief Petty Officers in the Navy and Coast Guard, and Senior Master Sergeants in the Air Force.  These individuals have a great depth of experience and typically have served 20+ years in the service.  In the enlisted ranks, these individuals have often served at a more strategic level, but yet maintained an excellence at driving tactical results.  They will have leadership of organizations ranging from 100's to 1,000's of service members.  Because of their diverse and deep experience, these candidates are well suited for key leader roles, consultative specialty roles and other positions where strategic thinking and hands-on leadership will drive results.

When we compiled the table, there were 107,512 candidates in grades E-6 through E-8 in our database, about 25% of all registered candidates. The numbers in the table sum to much more than 107,512 because, as indicated earlier, each candidate may select up to 10 interests. In fact, on average, they select about 3.5 interests. 

<table class="job-interest" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
  <tr>
    <th>
      Management/Supervision
    </th>
    <td class="pad right">
      31,844
    </td>
    <th>
      Education/Training/Counseling
    </th>
    <td>
      22,532
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>
      Law Enforcement/Legal/Security
    </th>
    <td class="pad right">
      17,594
    </td>
    <th>
      Human Resources
    </th>
    <td>
      16,465
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>
      Logistics/Transportation
    </th>
    <td class="pad right">
      15,112
    </td>
    <th>
      Public Sector/Government
    </th>
    <td>
      14,943
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>
      Administrative/Clerical/Support
    </th>
    <td class="pad right">
      13,738
    </td>
    <th>
      Aerospace/Defense
    </th>
    <td>
      13,383
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>
      Computers
    </th>
    <td class="pad right">
      13,066
    </td>
    <th>
      Information Technology
    </th>
    <td>
      12,945
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>
      Customer Service
    </th>
    <td class="pad right">
      12,271
    </td>
    <th>
      Maintenance Management
    </th>
    <td>
      12,559
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>
      Facilities Management
    </th>
    <td class="pad right">
      11,396
    </td>
    <th>
      Maintenance/Installation/Repair
    </th>
    <td>
      10,068
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>
      Manufacturing/Operations/Production
    </th>
    <td class="pad right">
      9,477
    </td>
    <th>
      Warehouse/Distribution
    </th>
    <td>
      8,888
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>
      Telecommunications
    </th>
    <td class="pad right">
      7,640
    </td>
    <th>
      Consulting
    </th>
    <td>
      7,595
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>
      Electronics Technician
    </th>
    <td class="pad right">
      6,424
    </td>
    <th>
      Sports/Recreation
    </th>
    <td>
      6,048
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

We would be pleased to elaborate on any of this information or to provide other breakdowns of our database. Just contact your RecruitMilitary Account Executive—or me.

<p class="author">Mike Francomb is Senior Vice President, Strategic Accounts, at RecruitMilitary and a former Captain in the United States Army. Contact him at (513) 683-5020 or <a href="mailto:&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6B;&#x65;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x63;&#x72;&#x75;&#x69;&#x74;&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6C;&#x69;&#x74;&#x61;&#x72;&#x79;&#x2E;&#x63;&#x6F;&#x6D;" title="Email &#x6D;&#x69;&#x6B;&#x65;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x63;&#x72;&#x75;&#x69;&#x74;&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6C;&#x69;&#x74;&#x61;&#x72;&#x79;&#x2E;&#x63;&#x6F;&#x6D;">&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6B;&#x65;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x63;&#x72;&#x75;&#x69;&#x74;&#x6D;&#x69;&#x6C;&#x69;&#x74;&#x61;&#x72;&#x79;&#x2E;&#x63;&#x6F;&#x6D;</a>.</p>
